Presentation
	We are modeling the social network dynamics of the spotted hyena. Spotted hyenas are a great study species because of their complex ranked social structure, unique in Carnivora in its similarity to primates. Social rank is determined by matrilineal kin, with cubs of higher-ranking mothers immediately out-ranking all females of lower rank, despite their seniority in the clan. Additionally, all females outrank all males in the clan, and males usually disperse from their natal clan to others, sacrificing any rank superiority they inherited from their natal clan.
Our data focuses on the Talek clan residing in a national reserve in Kenya. Researchers have been studying this clan for over 22 years. We are developing a model which will show how matrilineal rank, fitness, and connectivity of the network changes over time. We divided the data of adult female hyenas into yearly increments. The association between two hyenas was determined based on dyadic connections observed. This was done using the Twice-Weight Association index which uses the number of observations two hyenas were seen together divided by the total time the hyenas were seen.  We also determined the matrilines based on the maternal data. Hyenas who shared a common ancestor were placed in the same matriline. Ranks were determined from the aggressive dyadic interactions observed. The Clutton-Brock index took into consideration the number of times a hyena was an aggressor and a recipient. Fitness was calculated based on the number of births an individual had in relation to the total number of births of the clan. 
Connectivity and matriline rank appear to affect trends in rank over time. Matrilines with ranks 1, 2, and 3 remained stable from 1995 to 1999. Meanwhile, the lower ranked matrilines were less stable and either disappeared or changed rank. In 1995, the matriline with rank 7 was strongly connected to matrilines of higher rank. By 1999, the matriline increased rank to rank 5 while the matriline that previously was rank 4 decreased in to rank 6.
We would like to create a mathematical model which will predict rank over time based on fitness and network connectivity. We would like to look into the different impacts external and internal connectivity have on rank as well.